hey guys welcome back to flicks recap my
name is luke pelletier and today we're
covering the invasive 2015 psychological
torment known as the gift before we go
ahead be sure to like the video drop a
comment and of course subscribe to the
channel if you dig the commentary
let's get to it
simon callum and his wife robin have
just moved to california simon provides
cyber security systems to large
corporations while robin is an interior
designer
one day the two are shopping in a mall
when a guy called gordon mosley aka
gordo recognizes simon
simon has a hard time placing him but
gorda reminds him that they went to high
school together
simon and robin don't really have time
to catch up so they take gordo's number
to contact him later but they don't have
to wait too long because the next day
gordo leaves a bottle of wine at their
doorstep as a welcome gift he must have
remembered their address from when simon
was giving it to the cashier at the mall
a few days later gordo even shows up
unannounced at their house when robin is
alone
even though robin finds this a little
strange she stays polite and invites him
in to give him a tour of the house she
even asks him to stay later for dinner
with her and simon
at dinner gordo asks simon if he's in
touch with their high school buddy greg
pearson after which the conversation
shifts back to their high school days
and how simon was their class president
who basically got the student body
whatever they demanded meanwhile gordo
says that he served in the military for
a while after school but then left after
which his life seems to have been a
mixture of good and bad things highs and
lows peaks and dips that sort of thing
after gordo leaves simon tells robin
that gordo must be delusional because he
thinks they're friends when in reality
they barely knew each other the next
night simon and robin return from a
party at simon's new job and find
another gift from gordo waiting for them
at the door
gordo got them fish for their koi pond a
nice gesture but something that simon
finds disturbing because it means gordo
came to their property without asking
them simon tells robin that back in high
school kids used to call him gordo the
weirdo
the next morning gordo shows up to their
place again
seemingly looking for simon robin
hesitantly invites him in for some tea
he sets up their tv for them and goes to
the kitchen to put something back but
apparently notices a gordo the weirdo
doodle that simon had scribbled on the
fridge from the previous night after
which he leaves embarrassed
that night simon and robin have dinner
with their neighbors lucy and ron and
another couple from simon's office
they talk about gordo and are all
surprised when simon tells them that
gordo actually invited him and robin to
dinner at his place with another couple
even after seeing the insult that simon
had put on the fridge
everyone advises them against accepting
the invite but they end up going anyway
they're very impressed by gordo's
extravagant house since it totally
defies all their expectations gordo
tells them that the other couple
cancelled last minute so it's just gonna
be the three of them
seconds later gordo receives a call and
has to step out for a bit for an urgent
work thing simon and robin are shocked
because gordo just leaves them alone and
drives off in his car
simon thinks gordo is obsessed with
robin especially with all the
unannounced visits to their house when
robin is alone
when gordo returns he confesses that he
had lied to them earlier
he wasn't really dealing with a work
thing but actually speaking to his
ex-wife who recently left him
apparently he and her have two kids but
the ex-wife has custody over both of
them
sad as it seems simon doesn't seem too
moved by the story he forces robin to go
wait in the car because he wants to talk
to gordo alone
simon then rudely asks gordo to stop
visiting them
the next morning robin notices that the
fish in their koi pond are all dead and
their dog is missing too
furious simon drives over to gordo's
house again but this time a woman
answers the door and she claims to not
know anyone named gordon
simon and robin contact the police who
find out that the house actually
belonged to the owner of a car rental
company who had given gordo access to
his garage to pick up a car
but the police don't want to accuse
gordo of stealing their dog without some
kind of proof which at this point the
callums don't have
so robin prints out lost dog posters to
put around the neighborhood
but as she's printing them out she hears
something and goes to check
she finds that the faucet in the kitchen
is running
scared she goes over to lucy's to tell
her about this who offers to accompany
her back to the house and check around
but robin doesn't want to trouble lucy
because she thinks that it might just
all be in her head since lately she's
been having trouble sleeping she does
however use lucy's bathroom accidentally
finds some sleeping pills conveniently
and then steals some of them she takes a
pill later that night when simon is
asleep and is about to go back to bed
when she notices that the light in the
front yard is on
she goes to check and finds that her dog
is back
simon's pretty sure that the dog's
disappearance and sudden reappearance is
somehow related to gordo
in the next morning's mail robin finds a
letter from gordo apologizing to her and
simon about dinner and telling them that
the only reason he used someone else's
house to host them was that he was
ashamed to have them see where he
actually lived
as if that wasn't pathetically sweet
enough he also says specifically to
simon that he was willing to let bygones
be bygones and only had good intentions
for them
now we can assume that this is because
of simon's drawing on the fridge but
robin asks simon what gordo means by
letting bygones be bygones but simon
says he doesn't know and that gordo is
an unstable man who shouldn't be trusted
but gordo's letter and the sleeping
pills that she's taking together seem to
be having a terrible effect on robin
because she's having nightmares about
gordo
the next day at work simon finds out
that he's contending for a promotion
against this other guy danny mcdonald he
shares this with robin and also
confronts her about the sleeping pills
that he had discovered in the bedroom
robin tells simon that she started
taking them because she hasn't been
feeling good about the whole gordo
situation and that she wants simon to
make peace with him
when she asks him again what let bygones
be bygones meant simon gets flustered he
says he just wants her to get on with
her life and stop thinking about gordo
and that's exactly what she does
she forgets all about gordo she moves on
with her life and soon
she gets pregnant but just as all good
things must end this vacation from gordo
doesn't last
one day she goes out shopping with lucy
when lucy tells her that a creepy guy is
staring at her from outside the store
as you might guess gordo is back
since simon didn't want to talk about
gordo robin talks to simon's sister joan
to see if she knew anything about gordo
from high school
joan tells her that gordo was sent away
because he was found quote unquote
getting molested by another older kid in
a car
simon and his friend greg reported the
incident after which gordo was bullied
by all the students for allegedly being
gay
robin then snoops around simon's home
office to find out more and soon finds
an entire background check file on gordo
gordo apparently has several charges
against him including breaking and
entering
and abduction of a minor
robin then finds greg through some
online digging and goes to see him at
his work
she talks to him about gordo and the
molestation incident
greg tells her that the entire story was
a lie that simon had fabricated because
in truth simon was a bully
simon had basically ruined gordo's life
by targeting him
gordo's dad even tried to kill his son
and then got sent to jail because of
that lie
when robin confronts simon with this
information he yells at her for going
behind his back
he's not ready to own up or to apologize
to gordo for his mistake because he
thinks gordo should have sucked it up
and left that part of his life behind as
a partner should be robin is deeply
upset to see this malicious side of
simon
to make it up to robin simon finds gordo
and apologizes but gordo says that it's
too late for him to accept his apology
now
simon isn't happy with this and reverts
back to being a classic high school
bully using physical intimidation to
force gordo to accept his apology and
threatens to destroy him if he came near
his family again simon then lies to
robin about gordo accepting his apology
meanwhile at work simon ends up trumping
the other guy dany to get the promotion
they were competing for
he's celebrating with some friends and
coworkers when a loud thud from upstairs
startles everyone
then someone throws a rock at their
window shattering it to pieces
they go looking for the intruder outside
when someone leaps at simon from out of
nowhere and then tries to run away
simon catches the intruder who turns out
to be danny
danny accuses simon of cheating him out
of the job promotion by sending a
misleading email to his bosses saying
that he knew that people at dany's old
firm had found him inadequate at that
moment robin who is already incredibly
disappointed in simon goes into labor
simon and lucy take her to the hospital
where she gives birth
but after all that happened with danny
simon is fired from his job
and robin doesn't want to be with him
anymore either
devastated by back to back tragedies
simon returns home only to find another
one of gordo's gifts left at the door
it's a car seat for the baby with some
other gifts inside it a key to his own
house and a cd which has an audio
recording of all the bad things simon
had said about gordo the night he'd
invited him and robin to dinner
then there's another cd
this time with a video recording of
simon and robin having dinner at their
own house and of gordo doing things to
robin when she was passed out one
afternoon due to her sleeping pills it's
implied here that gordo sexually
assaulted robin when she was unconscious
and that robin's baby is actually gordos
and not simons
shocked by this realization simon rushes
back to the hospital
meanwhile gordo also goes to the
hospital to see robin who is taken aback
to see his injured face and arm
he congratulates her for the baby and
when she asks about his injuries he
tells her that simon lost all control
and had beaten him up
when simon reaches the hospital he can't
find robin in her ward
he does see gordo waiting outside an
elevator but is unable to catch him
as he frantically looks for him
everywhere simon receives a call from
gordo who's still inside the hospital
gordo confuses him saying that he may or
may not have assaulted robin and
suggests he look at the baby's eyes to
figure out the truth
simon goes back inside and looks at the
baby but try as he might he can't figure
it out
in the end he's just left helpless and
anguished
not knowing whose baby it is
as the film ends gordo revels in simon's
misery and leaves removing the brace
around his arm as he does so further
suggesting that he had lied about his
injuries too
the big thing that stands out to me that
i really enjoy about this film is the
duality between both big players both
simon and gordo trade the roles of
protagonist and antagonist many times in
the film which i think is just so
effective and adds to the overall unease
of the entire story personally i think
it's a crazy toss-up between whether or
not gordo actually did anything to robin
while she was passed out
between his outstanding charges and the
sexualized trauma that gordo faced as a
kid even if it was a malicious falsehood
all might still have had an impact on
his development
assuming gordo never surrendered the
best parts of him by committing those
acts against robin he ends up getting
the best revenge possible it's a damned
if you do damned if you don't for simon
if robin does take simon back there'll
always be this big doubt over his
fatherhood unless of course he gets a
paternity test done which even then
would probably only ruin his
relationship with robin all over again
what stuck out to you about the gift and
what did you think of the ending drop a
comment and let me know and of course be
sure to like share and subscribe so you
don't miss the next recap until next
time